labs/01 - Components/readme.md, before:

# Create Your First Blazor App

## Create the solution

1. Open Visual Studio
2. Click on Create a new project
3. Select Blazor Web App
4. Click Next
5. Enter the project name: `BlazorHolApp`
6. Click Next
7. Use the following options:
   - Framework: .NET 10
   - Authentication Type: None
   - Configure for HTTPS: Checked
   - Interactive render mode: Server
   - Interactivity location: Global
   - Include sample pages: Checked
8. Click Create

## Run the application

1. Press F5 to run the application
2. The application will open in the browser
3. You will see the default Blazor application
4. Navigate to the `Counter` page
5. Click on the `Click me` button
6. You will see the counter incrementing
   - Notice how the page does not reload when the counter increments. This is because of data binding. The `currentCount` field is _bound_ to the output with `@currentCount`.
   - Also notice how the button click event is handled by the `IncrementCount` method. This is an example of event binding. The `@onclick` directive is used to bind the click event to the `IncrementCount` method.

7. Navigate to the `Fetch Data` page
8. You will see a table with some data
   - Notice how the page loads, then the data appears
   - This is because the data is loaded asynchronously
   - There is a `Task.Delay` to simulate a delay in loading the data

## Modify the application

1. Open the file `Components/Pages/Home.razor`
2. Modify the content of the file to the following:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.
```

3. Save the file
4. Press F5 to run the application
5. Notice the new content in the home page

## Add a new page

1. Right-click on the `Components/Pages` folder
2. Click on Add > Razor Component
3. Enter the name `About.razor`
4. Click Add
5. Modify the content of the file to the following:

```html
@page "/about"

<h1>About</h1>

<p>This is your application's about page.</p>
```

6. Save the file
7. Open the file `Components/Layout/NavMenu.razor` file
8. Add a new `NavLink` component to the `nav` element:

```html
<div class="nav-item px-3">
    <NavLink class="nav-link" href="about">
        <span class="bi bi-list-nested-nav-menu" aria-hidden="true"></span> About
    </NavLink>
</div>
```

9. Save the file
10. Press F5 to run the application
11. Click on the `About` link in the navigation menu
12. You will see the new page

## Adding a second route

1. Open the file "About.razor"
2. Add the another `@page` directive at the top of the file:

```html
@page "/about"
@page "/aboutus"

<h1>About</h1>

<p>This is your application's about page.</p>
```

3. Save the file
4. Edit the `NavMenu.razor` file
5. Add a new `NavLink` component to the `ul` element:

```html
<div class="nav-item px-3">
    <NavLink class="nav-link" href="aboutus">
        <span class="bi bi-list-nested-nav-menu" aria-hidden="true"></span> About Us
    </NavLink>
</div>
```

6. Save the file
7. Press F5 to run the application
8. Click on the `About Us` link in the navigation menu
9. You will see the same page as the `About` link - both routes point to the same page

## Using two-way data binding

1. Open the file `Components/Pages/Counter.razor`
2. Add a new input element to the page:

```html
<input type="text" @bind="currentCount" />
```

3. Save the file
4. Press F5 to run the application
5. Navigate to the `Counter` page
6. You will see a text box
7. Type a number in the text box
8. Notice how the counter increments when you tab out of the text box
   - This is because the `currentCount` field is bound to the input element with `@bind="currentCount"`
9. Click on the `Click me` button
10. You will see the counter incrementing in the text box and the output as they are both bound to the same field


# Creating Razor Components

## Composing Razor Components

1. Open the `BlazorHolApp` solution in Visual Studio.
1. Open the `Home.razor` file.
1. Add the `Weather` element to the `Home.razor` file:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<Weather />
```

Notice how it is colored differently. It is a Razor Component.

4. Press F5 to run the app.
5. Notice how the `Weather` component is displayed on the page, and you can still also go to the Weather page.

## Passing Parameters to Razor Components

1. Open the `Counter.razor` file.
1. Add a parameter to the `Counter` component:

```html
@page "/counter"

<PageTitle>Counter</PageTitle>

<h1>Counter</h1>

<input type="text" @bind="CurrentCount" />

<p role="status">Current count: @CurrentCount</p>

<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public int CurrentCount { get; set;}

    private void IncrementCount()
    {
        CurrentCount++;
    }
}
```

Notice how the `currentCount` field has been replaced with a `CurrentCount` property that is decorated with the `[Parameter]` attribute.

3. Open the `Home.razor` file.
4. Remove the `Weather` component from the `Home` component.
5. Add the `Counter` component to the `Home` component:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<Counter CurrentCount="42" />
```

6. Press F5 to run the app.
7. Notice how the `Counter` component is displayed on the page, and the `CurrentCount` property is set to `42`.

## Raising Events from Razor Components

1. Open the `Counter.razor` file.
2. Add an event to the `Counter` component:

```html
@page "/counter"

<PageTitle>Counter</PageTitle>

<h1>Counter</h1>

<input type="text" @bind="CurrentCount" />

<p role="status">Current count: @CurrentCount</p>

<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public EventCallback<int> CurrentCountChanged { get; set; }

    [Parameter]
    public int StartCount { get; set; }

    public int CurrentCount { get; set;}

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        CurrentCount = StartCount;
    }

    private async Task IncrementCount()
    {
        CurrentCount++;
        await CurrentCountChanged.InvokeAsync(CurrentCount);
    }
}
```

Because handling the event in the parent page will cause that page to re-render, it is necessary to change the `CurrentCount` property to _not_ be directly set by the parent page. Instead, the parent page will set the `StartCount` property, and the `Counter` component will set the `CurrentCount` property in the `OnInitialized` method.

The `IncrementCount` method now raises the `CurrentCountChanged` event, which the parent page can handle.

3. Open the `Home.razor` file.
4. Add a `CurrentCount` field to the `Home` component:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<p>Count: @CurrentCount</p>

<Counter StartCount="42" />

@code {
    private int CurrentCount = 0;
}
```

Notice that `Counter` now has a `StartCount` parameter instead of the `CurrentCount` parameter.

5. Handle the `CurrentCountChanged` event in the `Home` component:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<p>Count: @CurrentCount</p>

<Counter StartCount="42" CurrentCountChanged="CountChanged"/>

@code {
    private int CurrentCount = 0;

    private void CountChanged(int count)
    {
        this.CurrentCount = count;
    }
}
```

6. Press F5 to run the app.
7. Notice how the `CurrentCounter` value changes as you change the value in the `Counter` component.

## Cascading Parameters

1. Open the `Counter.razor` file.
2. Change the parameter to a cascading parameter:

```csharp
@code {
    [CascadingParameter]
    public int StartCount { get; set; }
}
```

3. Open the `Home.razor` file.
4. Add a `CascadingValue` element to the `Home` component:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<CascadingValue Value="123">
    <div class="border border-4">
        <Counter/>
    </div>
    <div class="border border-4">
        <Counter/>
    </div>
</CascadingValue>
```

5. Press F5 to run the app.
6. Notice how the `Counter` components are displayed on the page, and the `CurrentCount` property is set to `123`.
7. Notice how changing the value in one `Counter` component has no impact on the other `Counter` component.

Commit message:

Update projects to target .NET 10.0 and upgrade package references
- Changed target framework from net8.0 to net10.0 in multiple projects.
- Updated package references for Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.WebAssembly and related packages to version 10.0.1.
- Enhanced readme files with notes on Hot Reload usage and updated instructions for QuickGrid and JavaScript interop.
- Introduced modern JavaScript interop using source generation with [JSImport] for better performance in Blazor WebAssembly.
- Added new demo pages and JavaScript modules to showcase advanced interop techniques.

labs/01 - Components/readme.md, after:

# Create Your First Blazor App

## Create the solution

1. Open Visual Studio
2. Click on Create a new project
3. Select Blazor Web App
4. Click Next
5. Enter the project name: `BlazorHolApp`
6. Click Next
7. Use the following options:
   - Framework: .NET 10
   - Authentication Type: None
   - Configure for HTTPS: Checked
   - Interactive render mode: Server
   - Interactivity location: Global
   - Include sample pages: Checked
8. Click Create

## Run the application

1. Press F5 to run the application
2. The application will open in the browser
3. You will see the default Blazor application
4. Navigate to the `Counter` page
5. Click on the `Click me` button
6. You will see the counter incrementing
   - Notice how the page does not reload when the counter increments. This is because of data binding. The `currentCount` field is _bound_ to the output with `@currentCount`.
   - Also notice how the button click event is handled by the `IncrementCount` method. This is an example of event binding. The `@onclick` directive is used to bind the click event to the `IncrementCount` method.

7. Navigate to the `Fetch Data` page
8. You will see a table with some data
   - Notice how the page loads, then the data appears
   - This is because the data is loaded asynchronously
   - There is a `Task.Delay` to simulate a delay in loading the data

## Modify the application

1. Open the file `Components/Pages/Home.razor`
2. Modify the content of the file to the following:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.
```

3. Save the file
4. Press F5 to run the application
5. Notice the new content in the home page

> **Note:** Hot Reload in Visual Studio can be used to see changes without restarting the application. If cached or stale code persists, restart the application.

## Add a new page

1. Right-click on the `Components/Pages` folder
2. Click on Add > Razor Component
3. Enter the name `About.razor`
4. Click Add
5. Modify the content of the file to the following:

```html
@page "/about"

<h1>About</h1>

<p>This is your application's about page.</p>
```

6. Save the file
7. Open the file `Components/Layout/NavMenu.razor` file
8. Add a new `NavLink` component to the `nav` element:

```html
<div class="nav-item px-3">
    <NavLink class="nav-link" href="about">
        <span class="bi bi-list-nested-nav-menu" aria-hidden="true"></span> About
    </NavLink>
</div>
```

9. Save the file
10. Press F5 to run the application
11. Click on the `About` link in the navigation menu
12. You will see the new page

## Adding a second route

1. Open the file "About.razor"
2. Add the another `@page` directive at the top of the file:

```html
@page "/about"
@page "/aboutus"

<h1>About</h1>

<p>This is your application's about page.</p>
```

3. Save the file
4. Edit the `NavMenu.razor` file
5. Add a new `NavLink` component to the `ul` element:

```html
<div class="nav-item px-3">
    <NavLink class="nav-link" href="aboutus">
        <span class="bi bi-list-nested-nav-menu" aria-hidden="true"></span> About Us
    </NavLink>
</div>
```

6. Save the file
7. Press F5 to run the application
8. Click on the `About Us` link in the navigation menu
9. You will see the same page as the `About` link - both routes point to the same page

## Using two-way data binding

1. Open the file `Components/Pages/Counter.razor`
2. Add a new input element to the page:

```html
<input type="text" @bind="currentCount" />
```

3. Save the file
4. Press F5 to run the application
5. Navigate to the `Counter` page
6. You will see a text box
7. Type a number in the text box
8. Notice how the counter increments when you tab out of the text box
   - This is because the `currentCount` field is bound to the input element with `@bind="currentCount"`
9. Click on the `Click me` button
10. You will see the counter incrementing in the text box and the output as they are both bound to the same field


# Creating Razor Components

## Composing Razor Components

1. Open the `BlazorHolApp` solution in Visual Studio.
1. Open the `Home.razor` file.
1. Add the `Weather` element to the `Home.razor` file:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<Weather />
```

Notice how it is colored differently. It is a Razor Component.

4. Press F5 to run the app.
5. Notice how the `Weather` component is displayed on the page, and you can still also go to the Weather page.

## Passing Parameters to Razor Components

1. Open the `Counter.razor` file.
1. Add a parameter to the `Counter` component:

```html
@page "/counter"

<PageTitle>Counter</PageTitle>

<h1>Counter</h1>

<input type="text" @bind="CurrentCount" />

<p role="status">Current count: @CurrentCount</p>

<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public int CurrentCount { get; set;}

    private void IncrementCount()
    {
        CurrentCount++;
    }
}
```

Notice how the `currentCount` field has been replaced with a `CurrentCount` property that is decorated with the `[Parameter]` attribute.

3. Open the `Home.razor` file.
4. Remove the `Weather` component from the `Home` component.
5. Add the `Counter` component to the `Home` component:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<Counter CurrentCount="42" />
```

6. Press F5 to run the app.
7. Notice how the `Counter` component is displayed on the page, and the `CurrentCount` property is set to `42`.

## Raising Events from Razor Components

1. Open the `Counter.razor` file.
2. Add an event to the `Counter` component:

```html
@page "/counter"

<PageTitle>Counter</PageTitle>

<h1>Counter</h1>

<input type="text" @bind="CurrentCount" />

<p role="status">Current count: @CurrentCount</p>

<button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="IncrementCount">Click me</button>

@code {
    [Parameter]
    public EventCallback<int> CurrentCountChanged { get; set; }

    [Parameter]
    public int StartCount { get; set; }

    public int CurrentCount { get; set;}

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        CurrentCount = StartCount;
    }

    private async Task IncrementCount()
    {
        CurrentCount++;
        await CurrentCountChanged.InvokeAsync(CurrentCount);
    }
}
```

Because handling the event in the parent page will cause that page to re-render, it is necessary to change the `CurrentCount` property to _not_ be directly set by the parent page. Instead, the parent page will set the `StartCount` property, and the `Counter` component will set the `CurrentCount` property in the `OnInitialized` method.

The `IncrementCount` method now raises the `CurrentCountChanged` event, which the parent page can handle.

3. Open the `Home.razor` file.
4. Add a `CurrentCount` field to the `Home` component:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<p>Count: @CurrentCount</p>

<Counter StartCount="42" />

@code {
    private int CurrentCount = 0;
}
```

Notice that `Counter` now has a `StartCount` parameter instead of the `CurrentCount` parameter.

5. Handle the `CurrentCountChanged` event in the `Home` component:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<p>Count: @CurrentCount</p>

<Counter StartCount="42" CurrentCountChanged="CountChanged"/>

@code {
    private int CurrentCount = 0;

    private void CountChanged(int count)
    {
        this.CurrentCount = count;
    }
}
```

6. Press F5 to run the app.
7. Notice how the `CurrentCounter` value changes as you change the value in the `Counter` component.

## Cascading Parameters

1. Open the `Counter.razor` file.
2. Change the parameter to a cascading parameter:

```csharp
@code {
    [CascadingParameter]
    public int StartCount { get; set; }
}
```

3. Open the `Home.razor` file.
4. Add a `CascadingValue` element to the `Home` component:

```html
@page "/"

<PageTitle>HOL Home</PageTitle>

<h1>Hands On Lab App</h1>

Welcome to the Blazor Hands On Lab App.

<CascadingValue Value="123">
    <div class="border border-4">
        <Counter/>
    </div>
    <div class="border border-4">
        <Counter/>
    </div>
</CascadingValue>
```

5. Press F5 to run the app.
6. Notice how the `Counter` components are displayed on the page, and the `CurrentCount` property is set to `123`.
7. Notice how changing the value in one `Counter` component has no impact on the other `Counter` component.
